src/content/posts/case-insensitive-in-query-in-postgres-psql.md, before:

---
publishDate: 2018-04-23
title: Case insensitive `in` query in #postgres #psql
tags: [sql]
description: Perform case-insensitive PostgreSQL queries using citext extension to match records regardless of casing.
---

If you have a list of strings and you want to query a column to get all the matching records, but you do not care about the casing, Postgres offers a cool and easy way of doing that with the citext extension.

Given this table:

```sql
id | company_name
 1 | Abibas
 2 | Nykey
 3 | Pumar
```

We want to match the following:

```sql
select company_name
from vendors 
where company_name in ('Abibas', 'NyKey', 'PUMAr');
```

First you will have to make sure you have the `citext` extension created if you haven't already:

```sql
create extension citext;
```

Then you can cast the searched field to citext:

```sql
select company_name
from vendors 
where company_name::citext in ('Abibas', 'NyKey', 'PUMAr');
```

h/t [joshbranchaud](https://til.hashrocket.com/authors/joshbranchaud) for helping me find this

Commit message:

feat: link posts based on thematic relationship

src/content/posts/case-insensitive-in-query-in-postgres-psql.md, after:

---
publishDate: 2018-04-23
title: Case insensitive `in` query in #postgres #psql
tags: [sql]
description: Perform case-insensitive PostgreSQL queries using citext extension to match records regardless of casing.
relatedPosts: ["quick-syntax-reference-for-sql-directly-in-psql", "list-all-available-extensions-in-postgres", "postgres-automatically-appends-timezone"]
---

If you have a list of strings and you want to query a column to get all the matching records, but you do not care about the casing, Postgres offers a cool and easy way of doing that with the citext extension.

Given this table:

```sql
id | company_name
 1 | Abibas
 2 | Nykey
 3 | Pumar
```

We want to match the following:

```sql
select company_name
from vendors 
where company_name in ('Abibas', 'NyKey', 'PUMAr');
```

First you will have to make sure you have the `citext` extension created if you haven't already:

```sql
create extension citext;
```

Then you can cast the searched field to citext:

```sql
select company_name
from vendors 
where company_name::citext in ('Abibas', 'NyKey', 'PUMAr');
```

h/t [joshbranchaud](https://til.hashrocket.com/authors/joshbranchaud) for helping me find this
