src/content/posts/clean-stopped-containers-dangling-images-docker.md, before:

---
title: Clean stopped containers & dangling images #docker
description: Clean stopped Docker containers with prune command and remove dangling images to reclaim disk space efficiently.
tags: [devops, docker]
publishDate: 2019-05-29
---

Today I learned how to clean stopped containers in Docker. Starting in [Docker 1.13](https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1130-2017-01-18) a new `prune` command has been introduced.

```bash
docker container prune
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_prune/)

### No one likes dangling images...

To list the numeric ids of dangling images dangling images use the filter with the dangling flag and `-q` to suppress anything but IDs:

```bash
dangling_images=$(docker images -qf dangling=true)
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/images/)

Then delete the images

```bash
docker rmi $dangling_images
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/rmi/)

You can add those to a script and run it from time to time to reclaim hard drive space and some sanity.

Commit message:

feat: link posts based on thematic relationship

src/content/posts/clean-stopped-containers-dangling-images-docker.md, after:

---
title: Clean stopped containers & dangling images #docker
description: Clean stopped Docker containers with prune command and remove dangling images to reclaim disk space efficiently.
tags: [devops, docker]
publishDate: 2019-05-29
relatedPosts: ["get-the-linux-ip-command-line-utility-on-docker", "get-ping-linux-command-on-docker"]
---

Today I learned how to clean stopped containers in Docker. Starting in [Docker 1.13](https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1130-2017-01-18) a new `prune` command has been introduced.

```bash
docker container prune
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_prune/)

### No one likes dangling images...

To list the numeric ids of dangling images dangling images use the filter with the dangling flag and `-q` to suppress anything but IDs:

```bash
dangling_images=$(docker images -qf dangling=true)
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/images/)

Then delete the images

```bash
docker rmi $dangling_images
```

[(docs)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/rmi/)

You can add those to a script and run it from time to time to reclaim hard drive space and some sanity.
