src/content/posts/quick-syntax-reference-for-sql-directly-in-psql.md, before:

---
title: Quick syntax reference for SQL directly in psql
publishDate: 2018-02-18
tags: [sql]
description: Access SQL command syntax documentation directly in psql using \h command for productive terminal-based development.
---

Whenever I forget the syntax for a certain SQL command in Posgres I usually reach for [Dash](https://kapeli.com/dash) or simply search DuckDuckGo for the the specific command. That usually yields the Postgres official documentation website which is great...

Wouldn't it be nice though if I could stay right inside psql and get the documentation I am looking for?

It would.. and it's possible:

```
\h create index
```

![create index screenshot](/images/Nm0lY3u.png)

Use `\h` followed by the SQL command - this is not the full verbose documentation that you would find on the Postgres docs website but it's more of a syntax reference - which is most of the time what you need.


If you are not sure what to type or simply want to explore new commands try typing `\h` without anything after it - you will see something like this:

![slash h by itself screenshot](/images/PRIgAm5.png)

Commit message:

feat: link posts based on thematic relationship

src/content/posts/quick-syntax-reference-for-sql-directly-in-psql.md, after:

---
title: Quick syntax reference for SQL directly in psql
publishDate: 2018-02-18
tags: [sql]
description: Access SQL command syntax documentation directly in psql using \h command for productive terminal-based development.
relatedPosts: ["show-materialized-view-definition-in-postgresql", "list-all-available-extensions-in-postgres", "case-insensitive-in-query-in-postgres-psql"]
---

Whenever I forget the syntax for a certain SQL command in Posgres I usually reach for [Dash](https://kapeli.com/dash) or simply search DuckDuckGo for the the specific command. That usually yields the Postgres official documentation website which is great...

Wouldn't it be nice though if I could stay right inside psql and get the documentation I am looking for?

It would.. and it's possible:

```
\h create index
```

![create index screenshot](/images/Nm0lY3u.png)

Use `\h` followed by the SQL command - this is not the full verbose documentation that you would find on the Postgres docs website but it's more of a syntax reference - which is most of the time what you need.


If you are not sure what to type or simply want to explore new commands try typing `\h` without anything after it - you will see something like this:

![slash h by itself screenshot](/images/PRIgAm5.png)
