src/content/posts/whats-my-public-ip-automation-linux-terminal.md, before:

---
title: "What's my public IP? Automation for Linux terminal"
description: "Get public IP address and location from command line using ipinfo.io in JSON format for automation."
publishDate: 2020-02-05
tags: ["command-line", "automation", "linux", "terminal", "networking"]
isDraft: false
isFeatured: false
---

Ever wonder what your public IP looks like? When I do, I usually [search duckduckgo.com for "what's my ip"](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=what%27s+my+ip) and it is nice enough to tell me that at the top above the search results.

But what if I want to do that at the terminal, and perhaps use that information in a script?

TIL about ipinfo.io! curl it and you get your ip, hostname, city, state, zipcode, country, ISP, timezone, even lat & lng coordinates of the rough location!

```bash
curl ipinfo.io
```

```json
{
  "ip": "111.111.111.111",
  "hostname": "redacted.comcast.com",
  "city": "Chicago",
  "region": "Illinois",
  "country": "US",
  "loc": "41.8500,-87.6500",
  "org": "AS7922 Comcast Cable Communications, LLC",
  "postal": "60666",
  "timezone": "America/Chicago",
  "readme": "https://ipinfo.io/missingauth"
}
```

This information is not fully accurate, but it's good enough for scripts, and because it comes back in json form you can pipe it to `jq` to extract info or read it directly into your scripts.

Commit message:

feat: link posts based on thematic relationship

src/content/posts/whats-my-public-ip-automation-linux-terminal.md, after:

---
title: "What's my public IP? Automation for Linux terminal"
description: "Get public IP address and location from command line using ipinfo.io in JSON format for automation."
publishDate: 2020-02-05
tags: ["command-line", "automation", "linux", "terminal", "networking"]
isDraft: false
isFeatured: false
relatedPosts: ["use-a-proxy-on-curlwget-commands", "no-ifconfig-on-linux", "pretty-print-json-in-neovimvim-using-jq"]
---

Ever wonder what your public IP looks like? When I do, I usually [search duckduckgo.com for "what's my ip"](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=what%27s+my+ip) and it is nice enough to tell me that at the top above the search results.

But what if I want to do that at the terminal, and perhaps use that information in a script?

TIL about ipinfo.io! curl it and you get your ip, hostname, city, state, zipcode, country, ISP, timezone, even lat & lng coordinates of the rough location!

```bash
curl ipinfo.io
```

```json
{
  "ip": "111.111.111.111",
  "hostname": "redacted.comcast.com",
  "city": "Chicago",
  "region": "Illinois",
  "country": "US",
  "loc": "41.8500,-87.6500",
  "org": "AS7922 Comcast Cable Communications, LLC",
  "postal": "60666",
  "timezone": "America/Chicago",
  "readme": "https://ipinfo.io/missingauth"
}
```

This information is not fully accurate, but it's good enough for scripts, and because it comes back in json form you can pipe it to `jq` to extract info or read it directly into your scripts.
