src/content/posts/whatis-command-and-apropos-in-linux-bash.md, before:

---
title: "whatis command and apropos in Linux/Bash"
description: "Discover command info with whatis and find commands by description using apropos - helpful Linux utilities."
publishDate: 2017-11-20
tags: ["command-line", "linux", "bash"]
isDraft: false
isFeatured: false
---

Ever wonder what a command you are using is? Turns out linux has the answers for you!

Simply type `whatis` followed by the name of the command.

Examples:

```bash
$ whatis bc
bc(1)         - An arbitrary precision calculator language
$ whatis brew
brew(1)       - The missing package manager for macOS
brew-cask(1)  - a friendly binary installer for macOS
```

`whatis` uses the man pages to search your entered query.

There is also a reverse search, which searches the descriptions of commands. For example say you are looking for a calculator:

```bash
$ apropos calculator
bc(1)         - An arbitrary precision calculator language
dc(1)         - an arbitrary precision calculator
```

h/t [this tweet by Peter Cooper](https://twitter.com/peterc/status/932591484175638528)

Commit message:

feat: link posts based on thematic relationship

src/content/posts/whatis-command-and-apropos-in-linux-bash.md, after:

---
title: "whatis command and apropos in Linux/Bash"
description: "Discover command info with whatis and find commands by description using apropos - helpful Linux utilities."
publishDate: 2017-11-20
tags: ["command-line", "linux", "bash"]
isDraft: false
isFeatured: false
relatedPosts: ["easily-delete-a-long-word-in-terminal", "pipe-all-output-from-a-command-stderr-stdout", "no-ifconfig-on-linux"]
---

Ever wonder what a command you are using is? Turns out linux has the answers for you!

Simply type `whatis` followed by the name of the command.

Examples:

```bash
$ whatis bc
bc(1)         - An arbitrary precision calculator language
$ whatis brew
brew(1)       - The missing package manager for macOS
brew-cask(1)  - a friendly binary installer for macOS
```

`whatis` uses the man pages to search your entered query.

There is also a reverse search, which searches the descriptions of commands. For example say you are looking for a calculator:

```bash
$ apropos calculator
bc(1)         - An arbitrary precision calculator language
dc(1)         - an arbitrary precision calculator
```

h/t [this tweet by Peter Cooper](https://twitter.com/peterc/status/932591484175638528)
